Your vocal cords allow you speak.
Normally, as air passes over these mucous membranes,
they vibrate and produce different sounds.
When they become irritated or inflamed,
you experience laryngitis.
It can cause a hoarse or raspy sound
and, if severe, cause you to “lose your voice”
or experience a blocked airway.
Laryngitis can be caused by several factors:
Acid reflux
Yelling and strain
Virus
Bacterial infection
Injury
Allergies
Smoking
In most cases,
laryngitis is not a serious condition
and it goes away on its own within two weeks.
Chronic laryngitis may be the result of a
more serious condition such as nerve damage,
polyps or hard or thick lumps known as nodules.
If you suspect that you have chronic laryngitis,
visit your doctor.